## HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)

- application level protocol.
- asymmetric request-response client-server protocol.
- client sends a request message to an HTTP server.  The server, in turn, returns a response message.  In other words, HTTP is a pull protocol, the client pulls information from the server (instead of server pushes information down to the client).
- stateless protocol. In other words, the current request does not know what has been done in the previous requests.
- permits negotiating of data type and representation, so as to allow systems to be built independently of the data being transferred.
- It typically runs over a TCP/IP connection, as illustrated. (HTTP needs not run on TCP/IP. It only presumes a reliable transport. Any transport protocols that provide such guarantees can be used.)
- defines a set of request methods. A client can use one of these request methods to send a request message to an HTTP server. (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, ...)
- first line of the response message (i.e., the status line) contains the response status code, which is generated by the server to indicate the outcome of the request.
- The status code is a 3-digit number:
    - 1xx (Informational): Request received, server is continuing the process.
    - 2xx (Success): The request was successfully - received, understood, accepted and serviced.
    - 3xx (Redirection): Further action must be taken in order to complete the request.
    - 4xx (Client Error): The request contains bad syntax or cannot be understood.
    - 5xx (Server Error): The server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request.